William Goldman: The Princess Bride Book

Valerie moved into his lap. "Let's be honest with each other; sure, you're a genius, but
even a genius gets rusty. You were three years out of practice. Forty minutes'll be plenty."
"I suppose you're right. Anyway, what can we do about it? Down is down."
"The pressures you been under, if it works at all, it'll be a miracle."
Max had to agree with her. "A fantasmagoria." He nodded.
 
The man in black was nearly stiff when Fezzik reached the wall. It was almost five
o'clock and Fezzik had been carrying the corpse the whole way from Miracle Max's, back
street to back street, alleyway to alleyway, and it was one of the hardest things he had ever
done. Not taxing. He wasn't even winded. But if the pill was just what it looked like, a
chocolate lump, then he, Fezzik, was going to have a lifetime of bad dreams of bodies
growing stiff between his fingers.
When he at last was in the wall shadow, he said to Inigo, "What now?"
"We've got to see if it's still safe. There might be a trap waiting." It was the same part of
the wall that led, shortly, to the Zoo, in the farthest corner of the castle grounds. But if the
albino's body had been discovered, then who knew what was waiting for them?
"Should I go up then?" Fezzik asked.
"We'll both do it," Inigo replied. "Lean him against the wall and help me." Fezzik tilted
the man in black so he was in no danger of falling and waited while Inigo jumped onto his
shoulders. Then Fezzik did the climbing. Any crack in the wall was enough for his fingers; the
least imperfection was all he needed. He climbed quickly, familiar with it now, and after a
moment, Inigo was able to grab hold of the top and say, "All right; go on back down," so
Fezzik returned to the man in black and waited.
Inigo crept along the wall top in dead silence. Far across he could see the castle
entrance and the armed soldiers flanking it. And closer at hand was the Zoo. And off in the
deepest brush in the farthest corner of the wall, he could make out the still body of the albino.
Nothing had changed at all. They were, at least so far, safe. He gestured down to Fezzik,
who scissored the man in black between his legs, began the arm climb noiselessly.
When they were all together on the wall top, Inigo stretched out the dead man and then
hurried along until he could get a better view of the main gate. The walk from the outer wall to
the main castle gate was slanted slightly down, not much of an incline, but a steady one.
There must be—Inigo did a quick count—at least a hundred men standing at the ready. And
the time must be —he estimated closely—five after five now, perhaps close to ten. Fifty
minutes till the wedding. Inigo turned then and hurried back to Fezzik. "I think we should give
him the pill," he said. "It must be around forty-five minutes till the ceremony."
"That means he's only got fifteen minutes to escape with," Fezzik said. "I think we
should wait until at least five-thirty. Half before, half after."
"No," Inigo said. "We're going to stop the wedding before it happens—that's the best
way, at least to my mind. Before they're all set. In the hustle and bustle beforehand, that's
when we should strike."
Fezzik had no further rebuttal.
"Anyway," Inigo said, "we don't know how long it takes to swallow something like this."
"I could never get it down myself, I know that."
"We'll have to force feed him," Inigo said, unwrapping the chocolate-colored lump. "Like
a stuffed goose. Put our hands around his neck and kind of push it down into whatever
comes next."
"I'm with you, Inigo," Fezzik said. "Just tell me what to do."
"Let's get him in a sitting position, I think, don't you? I always find it's easier swallowing
sitting up than lying down."
"We'll have to really work at it," Fezzik said. "He's completely stiff by now. I don't think
he'll bend easy at all."
"You can make him," Inigo said. "I always have confidence in you, Fezzik."
"Thank you," Fezzik said. "Just don't ever leave me alone." He pulled the corpse
sorry. Leave me."
"You just moved your own head," Fezzik said, doing his best to be cheery. "Doesn't that
up your spirits?"
"My brains, your strength and his steel against a hundred troops? And you think a little
head-jiggle is supposed to make me happy? Why didn't you leave me to death? This is
worse. Lying here helpless while my true love marries my murderer."
"I just know once you're over your emotional outbursts, you'll come up with—"
"I mean if we even had a wheelbarrow, that would be something," Westley said.
"Where did we put that wheelbarrow the albino had?" Inigo asked.
"Over by the albino, I think," Fezzik replied.
"Maybe we can get a wheelbarrow," Inigo said.
"Well why didn't you list that among our assets in the first place?" Westley said, sitting
up, staring out at the massed troops in the distance.
"You just sat up," Fezzik said, still trying to be cheery.
Westley continued to stare at the troops and the incline leading down toward them. He
shook his head. "What I'd give for a holocaust cloak," he said then.
"There we can't help you," Inigo said.
"Will this do?" Fezzik wondered, pulling out his holocaust cloak.
"Where . . . ?" Inigo began.
"While you were after frog dust—" Fezzik answered. "It fit so nicely I just tucked it away
and kept it."
Westley got to his feet then. "All right. I'll need a sword eventually."
"Why?" Inigo asked. "You can barely lift one."
"True," Westley agreed. "But that is hardly common knowledge. Hear me now; there
may be problems once we're inside—"
"I'll say there may be problems," Inigo cut in. "How do we stop the wedding? Once we
do, how do I find the Count? Once I do, where will I find you again? Once we're together, how
do we escape? Once we escape—"
"Don't pester him with so many questions," Fezzik said. "Take it easy; he's been dead."
"Right, right, sorry," Inigo said.
The man in black was moving verrrrrry slowly now along the top of the wall. By himself.
Fezzik and Inigo followed him through the darkness in the direction of the wheelbarrow.
There was no denying the fact that there was a certain excitement in the air.
 
Buttercup, for her part, felt no excitement whatsoever. She had, in fact, never
remembered such a wonderful feeling of calm. Her Westley was coming; that was her world.
Ever since the Prince had dragged her to her room she had spent the intervening hours
thinking of ways to make Westley happy. There was no way he could miss stopping her
wedding. That was the only thought that could survive the trip across her conscious mind.
So when she heard the wedding was to be moved up, she wasn't the least upset.
Westley was always prepared for contingencies, and if he could rescue her at six, he could
just as happily rescue her at half past five.
Actually, Prince Humperdinck got things going even faster than he had hoped. It was
5:23 when he and his bride-to-be were kneeling before the aged Archdean of Florin. It was
5:24 when the Archdean started to speak.
And 5:25 when the screaming started outside the main gate.
Buttercup only smiled softly. Here comes my Westley now, was all she thought.
 
It was not, in point of fact, her Westley that was causing the commotion out front.
Westley was doing all he could to simply walk straight down the incline toward the main gate
without help. Ahead of him, Inigo struggled with the heavy wheelbarrow. The reason for its
weight was that Fezzik stood in it, arms wide, eyes blazing, voice booming in terrible rage: "I
AM THE DREAD PIRATE ROBERTS AND THERE WILL BE NO SURVIVORS." He Said
that over and over, his voice echoing and reverberating as his rage increased. He was,
standing there, gliding down through the darkness, quite an imposing figure, seeming, all in
all, probably close to ten feet tall, with voice to match. But even that was not the cause of the
screaming.
 
Yellin, from his position by the gate, was reasonably upset at the roaring giant gliding
down toward them through the darkness. Not that he doubted his hundred men could
dispatch the giant; the upsetting thing was that, of course, the giant would be aware of that
too, and logically there must somewhere in the dimness out there be any number of giant
helpers. Other pirates, anything. Who could tell? Still, his men held together remarkably
staunchly.
It was only when the giant got halfway down the incline that he suddenly, happily, burst
into flame and continued his trip saying, "NO SURVIVORS, NO SURVIVORS!" in a manner
that could only indicate deadly sincerity.
It was seeing him happily burning and advancing that started the Brute Squad to
screaming. And once that happened, why, everybody panicked and ran. . . .
Eight
HONEYMOON
 
Once the panic was well under way, Yellin realized he had next to no chance of bringing
things immediately under control. Besides, the giant was terribly close now, and the roar of
"NO SURVIVORS" made it very hard to do any solid thinking, but fortunately he had the
sense to grab the one and only key to the castle and hide it on his person.
Fortunately too, Westley had the sense to look for such behavior. "Give me the key,"
Westley said to Yellin, once Inigo had his sword securely pressuring Yellin's Adam's apple.
"I have no key," Yellin replied. "I swear on the grave of my parents; may my mother's
soul forever sizzle in torment if I am lying."
"Tear his arms off," Westley said to Fezzik, who was sizzling a bit himself now,
because there was a limit as to just how long a holocaust cloak was really good for, and he
wanted to strip a bit, but before he did that, he reached for Yellin's arms.
"This key you mean?" Yellin said, and he dropped it, and after Inigo had taken his
sword, they let him run away.
"Open the gate," Westley said to Fezzik.
"I'm so hot," Fezzik said, "can I please take this thing off first?" and after Westley's nod,
he pulled the flaming cloak away and left it on the ground, then unlocked the gate and pulled
the door open enough for them to slip through.
"Lock it and keep the key, Fezzik," Westley said. "It must be after 5:30 by now; half an
hour left to stop the wedding."
"What do we do after we win?" Fezzik said, working with the key, forcing the great lock
to close. "Where should we meet? I'm the kind of fellow who needs instructions."
Before Westley could answer, Inigo cried out and readied his sword. Count Rugen and
four palace guards were rounding a corner and running toward them. The time was then
5:34.
 
The wedding itself did not end until 5:31, and Humperdinck had to use all of his
persuasive abilities to get even that much accomplished. As the screaming from outside the
gate burst all bounds of propriety, the Prince interrupted the Archdean with gentlest manner
and said, "Holiness, my love is simply overpowering my ability to wait—please skip on down
to the end of the service."
The time was then 5:27.
"Humperdinck and Buttercup," the Archdean said, "I am very old and my thoughts on
marriage are few, but I feel I must give them to you on this most happy of days." (The
Archdean could hear absolutely nothing, and had been so afflicted since he was eighty-five
or so. The only actual change that had come over him in the past years was that, for some
reason, his impediment had gotten worse. "Mawidge," he said. "Vewy old." Unless you paid
strict attention to his title and past accomplishments, it was very hard to take him seriously.)
"Mawidge—" the Archdean began.
"Again, Holiness, I interrupt in the name of love. Please hurry along as best you can to
the end."
"Mawidge is a dweam wiffin a dweam."
Buttercup was paying little attention to the goings on. Westley must be racing down the
corridors now. He always ran so beautifully. Even back on the farm, long before she knew
her heart, it was good to watch him run.
Count Rugen was the only other person in the room, and the commotion at the gate had
him on edge. Outside the door he had his four best swordsmen, so no one could enter the
tiny chapel, but, still, there were a lot of people screaming where the Brute Squad should
have been. The four guards were the only ones left inside the castle, for the Prince needed
no spectators to the events that were soon to happen. If only the idiot cleric would speed
things along. It was already 5:29.
"The dweam of wuv wapped wiffin the gweater dweam of everwasting west. Eternity is
our fwiend, wemember that, and wuv wiw fowwow you fowever."
It was 5:30 when the Prince stood up and approached the Archdean firmly. "Man and
wife," he shouted."Man and wife. Say that!"
"I'm not there yet," the Archdean answered.
"You just arrived," the Prince replied. "Now!"
Buttercup could picture Westley rounding the final corner. There were four guards
outside waiting. At ten seconds per guard, she began figuring, but then stopped, because
numbers had always been her enemy. She looked down at her hands. Oh, I hope he still
thinks I'm pretty, she thought; those nightmares took a lot out of me.
"Man and wife, you're man and wife," the Archdean said.
"Thank you, Holiness," the Prince said, whirling toward Rugen. "Stop that commotion!"
he commanded, and before his words were finished, the Count was running for the chapel
door.
It was 5:31.
 
It took a full three minutes for the Count and the guards to reach the gate, and when they
did, the Count could not believe it —he had seen Westley killed, and now there was
Westley. And with a giant and a strangely scarred swarthy fellow. Something about the twin
scars banked deep into his memory, but now was not the time for reminiscing. "Kill them,"
he said to the fencers, "but leave the middle-sized one until I tell you" and the four guards
drew their swords—
—but too late; too late and too slow, because as Fezzik moved in front of Westley, Inigo
attacked, the great blade blinding, and the fourth guard was dead before the first one had
had sufficient time to hit the floor.
Inigo stood still a moment, panting. Then he made a half turn in the direction of Count
Rugen and executed a quick and well-formed bow. "Hello," he said. "My name is Inigo
Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die."
And in reply, the Count did a genuinely remarkable and unexpected thing: he turned and
ran. It was now 5:37.
 
King Lotharon and Queen Bella arrived at the wedding chapel in time to see Count
Rugen leading the four guards in a charge down the corridor.
"Are we too early?" Queen Bella said, as they entered the wedding chapel and found
Buttercup and Humperdinck and the Archdean.
"There is much going on," the Prince said. "All, in due time, will come matchlessly clear.
But I fear there is a strong possibility that, at this very moment, the Guilderians are attacking.
I need time alone in the garden to formulate my battle plans, so could I prevail upon you two
to personally escort Buttercup to my bedchamber?"
His request was, naturally, granted. The Prince hurried off then, and, after one stop to
unlock a closet and remove several pairs of boots that had once belonged to Guilderian
soldiers, he hurried outside.
Buttercup, for her part, walked very slowly and peacefully between the old King and
Queen. There was no need ever to worry, not with Westley there to stop her wedding and
take her away forever. The truth of her situation did not take genuine effect until she was
halfway to Humperdinck's room.
There was no Westley.
No sweet Westley. He had not seen fit to come for her.
She gave a terrible sigh. Not so much of sadness as of farewell. Once she got to
Humperdinck's room, it would all be done. He had a splendid collection of swords and
cutlery.
She had never seriously contemplated suicide before. Oh, of course she'd thought
about it; every girl does from time to time. But never seriously. To her quiet surprise, she
found it was going to be the easiest thing in the world. She reached the Prince's chamber,
said good night to the Royal Family, and went directly to the wall display of weaponry. The
time was then 5:46.
 
Inigo, at 5:37, was so startled at the Count's cowardice that for a moment he simply
stood there. Then he gave chase and, of course, he was faster, but the Count made it
through a doorway, slammed and locked it, and Inigo was helpless to budge the thing.
"Fezzik," he called out desperately, "Fezzik, break it down."
But Fezzik was with Westley. That was his job, to stay and protect Westley, and though
they were still within view of Inigo, Fezzik could do nothing; Westley had already started to
walk. Slowly. Weakly. But he was, under his own power, walking.
"Charge it," Fezzik replied. "Slam your shoulder hard. It will give for you."
Inigo charged the door. He slammed and slammed his shoulder, but he was thin, the
door otherwise. "He's getting away from me," Inigo said.
"But Westley is helpless," Fezzik reminded him.
"Fezzik I need you," Inigo screamed.
"I'll only be a minute," Fezzik said, because there were some things you did, no matter
what, and when a friend needed help, you helped him.
Westley nodded, kept on walking, still slowly, still weak, but still able to move.
"Hurry," Inigo urged.
Fezzik hurried. He lumbered to the locked door, threw his bulk against it hard.
The door held.
"Please," Inigo urged.
"I'll get it, I'll get it," Fezzik promised, and he took a few steps back this time, then drove
his shoulder against the wood.
The door gave some. A little. But not enough.
Fezzik backed away from it now. With a roar he charged across the corridor and when
he was close he left the castle floor with both feet and the door splintered.
"Thank you, thank you," Inigo said, already halfway through the broken door.
"What do I do now though?" Fezzik called.
"Back to Westley," Inigo answered, in full flight now, beginning chasing through a series
of rooms.
"Stupid," Fezzik punished himself with, and he turned and rejoined Westley. Only
Westley was no longer there. Fezzik could feel the panic starting inside him. There were half
a dozen possible corridors. "Which which which?" Fezzik said, trying to figure it out, trying
for once in his life to do something right. "You'll pick the wrong one, knowing you," he said
out loud, and then he took a corridor and started hurrying along it as fast as he could.
He did pick the wrong one.
Westley was alone now.
 
Inigo was gaining. He could see, instant to instant, flashes of the fleeing noble in the
next room, and when he reached that place, the Count would have made it into the room
beyond. But each time, Inigo was gaining. By 5:40, he felt confident he would, after a chase
of twenty-five years, be alone in a room with his revenge.
 
By 5:48, Buttercup felt quite sure she would be dead. It was still a minute before that as
she stood staring at the Prince's knives. The most lethal looked to be the one most used, the
Florinese dagger. Pointed at one end, it entered easily, growing into a triangular shape by
the hilt. For quicker bleeding, it was said. They were made in varying sizes, and the Prince's
looked to be one of the largest, being wrist thick where it joined the handle. She pulled it
from the wall, put it to her heart.
"There are always too few perfect breasts in this world; leave yours alone," she heard.
And there was Westley on the bed. It was 5:48, and she knew that she would never die.
Westley, for his part, assumed he had till 6:15 for his hour to be up. That was, of course,
when an hour was up, only he didn't have an hour; only forty minutes. Till 5:55, actually.
Seven minutes more. But, as has been said, he had no way of knowing that.
 
And Inigo had no way of knowing that Count Rugen had a Florinese dagger. Or that he
was expert with the thing. It took Inigo until 5:41 before he actually cornered the Count. In a
billiard room. "Hello," he was about to say. "My name is Inigo Montoya; you killed my father;
prepare to die." What he actually got out was somewhat less: "Hello, my name is Ini—"
And then the dagger rearranged his insides. The force of the throw sent him staggering
backward into the wall. The rush of blood weakened him so quickly he could not keep his
feet. "Domingo, Domingo," he whispered, and then he was, at forty-two minutes after five,
lost on his knees. . . .
 
Buttercup was baffled by Westley's behavior. She rushed to him, expecting to be met
halfway in a wild embrace. Instead, he only smiled at her and remained where he was, lying
on the Prince's pillows, a sword beside his body.
Buttercup continued the journey alone and fell onto her very one and darling Westley.
"Gently," he said.
"At a time like this that's all you can think to say? 'Gently'?"
"Gently," Westley repeated, not so gently this time.
She got off him. "Are you angry at me for getting married?" she wondered.
"You are not married," he said, softly. Strange his voice was. "Not in my church or any
other."
"But this old man did pronounce—"
"Widows happen. Every day—don't they, Your Highness?" And now his voice was
stronger as he addressed the Prince, who entered, muddy boots in hand.
Prince Humperdinck dove for his weapons, and a sword flashed in his thick hands. "To
the death," he said, advancing.
Westley gave a soft shake of his head. "No," he corrected. "To the pain."
It was an odd phrase, and for the moment it brought the Prince up short. Besides, why
was the fellow just lying there? Where was the trap? "I don't think I quite understand that."
Westley lay without moving but he was smiling more deeply now. "I'll be only too
delighted to explain." It was 5:50 now. Twenty-five minutes of safety left. (There were five. He
did not know that. How could he know that?) Slowly, carefully, he began to talk. . . .
 
"Because he has no strength, now do what you're told," Inigo said, and then suddenly
on the floor, the Prince began struggling mightily with the sashes and he was tied, and tied
well, but power and anger were both on his side.
"You were bluffing; I was right the first time," Humperdinck said, and Inigo said, "That
was not a clever thing of me to let slip; I'm sorry," and Westley said, "Did you at least win
your battle?" and Inigo said, "I did," and Westley said, "Let us try to find some place to
defend ourselves; at least perhaps we can go together," and Buttercup said, "I'll help you up,
poor darling," and Fezzik said, "Oh, Inigo, I need you, please, Inigo; I'm lost and miserable
and frightened and I just need to see a friendly face."
They moved slowly to the window.
Wandering lost and forlorn through the Prince's garden was Fezzik, leading the four
giant whites.
"Here," Inigo whispered.
"Three friendly faces," Fezzik said, kind of bouncing up and down on his heels, which
he always did when things were looking up. "Oh, Inigo, I just ruined everything and I got so
lost and when I stumbled into the stables and found these pretty horses I thought four was
how many of them there were and four was how many of us there were too, if we found the
lady—hello, lady—and I thought, Why not take them along with me in case we all ever run
into each other." He stopped a moment, considering. "And I guess we did."
Inigo was terribly excited. "Fezzik, you thought for yourself," he said.
Fezzik considered that a moment too. "Does that mean you're not mad at me for
getting lost?"
"If we only had a ladder—" Buttercup began.
"Oh, you don't need a ladder to get down here," Fezzik said; "it's only twenty feet, I'll
catch you, only do it one at a time, please; there's not enough light, so if you all come at once
I might miss."
So while Humperdinck struggled, they jumped, one at a time, and Fezzik caught them
gently and put them on the whites, and he still had the key so they could get out the front
gate, and except for the fact that Yellin had regrouped the Brute Squad, they would have
gotten out without any trouble at all. As it was, when Fezzik unlocked the gate, they saw
nothing but armed Brutes in formation, Yellin at their lead. And no one smiling.
Westley shook his head. "I am dry of notions."
"Child's play," of all people, Buttercup said, and she led the group toward Yellin. "The
Count is dead; the Prince is in grave danger. Hurry now and you may yet save him. All of
you. Go."
Not a Brute moved.
"They obey me," Yellin said. "And I am in charge of enforcement, and—"
"And I," Buttercup said, "I," she repeated, standing up in the saddle, a creature of
infinite beauty and eyes that were starting to grow frightening, "I," she said for the third and
last time, "am
the
QUEEEEEEEEEEEEN."
There was no doubting her sincerity. Or power. Or capability for vengeance. She stared
imperiously across the Brute Squad.
"Save Humperdinck," one Brute said, and with that they all dashed into the castle.
"Save Humperdinck," Yellin said, the last one left, but clearly his heart wasn't in it.
"Actually, that was something of a fib," Buttercup said as they began to ride for
freedom, "seeing as Lotharon hasn't officially resigned, but I thought 'I am the Queen'
sounded better than 'I am the Princess.'"
"All I can say is, I'm impressed," Westley told her.
Buttercup shrugged. "I've been going to royalty school three years now; something had
to rub off." She looked at Westley. "You all right? I was worried about you back on the bed
there. Your eyes rolled up into your head and everything."
"I suppose I was dying again, so I asked the Lord of Permanent Affection for the
strength to live the day. Clearly, the answer came in the affirmative."
"I didn't know there was such a Fellow," Buttercup said.
"Neither did I, in truth, but if He didn't exist, I didn't much want to either."
The four great horses seemed almost to fly toward Florin Channel.
"It appears to me as if we're doomed, then," Buttercup said.
Westley looked at her. "Doomed, madam?"
"To be together. Until one of us dies."
"I've done that already, and I haven't the slightest intention of ever doing it again,"
Westley said.
Buttercup looked at him. "Don't we sort of have to sometime?"
"Not if we promise to outlive each other, and I make that promise now."
Buttercup looked at him. "Oh my Westley, so do I."
 
'And they lived happily ever after,' my father said.
'Wow,' I said.
He looked at me. 'You're not pleased?'
'No, no, it's just, it came so quick, the ending, it surprised me. I thought there 'd be a
little more, is all. I mean, was the pirate ship waiting or was that just a rumor like it said?'
'Complain to Mr. Morgenstern. "And they lived happily ever after" is how it ends.'
 
The truth was, my father was fibbing. I spent my whole life thinking it ended that way,
up until I did this abridgement. Then I glanced at the last page. This is how Morgenstern
ends it.
 
Buttercup looked at him. "Oh my Westley, so do I." From behind them suddenly, closer
than they imagined, they could hear the roar of Humperdinck: "Stop them! Cut them off!"
They were, admittedly, startled, but there was no reason for worry: they were on the fastest
horses in the kingdom, and the lead was already theirs.
However, this was before Inigo's wound reopened; and Westley relapsed again; and
Fezzik took the wrong turn; and Buttercup's horse threw a shoe. And the night behind them
was filled with the crescendoing sound of pursuit. . . .
 
That's Morgenstern's ending, a 'Lady or the Tiger?'-type effect (this was before 'The
Lady or the Tiger?,' remember). Now, he was a satirist, so he left it that way, and my father
was, I guess I realized too late, a romantic, so he ended it another way.
Well, I'm an abridger, so I'm entitled to a few ideas of my own. Did they make it? Was
the pirate ship there? You can answer it for yourself, but, for me, I say yes it was. And yes,
they got away. And got their strength back and had lots of adventures and more than their
share of laughs.
But that doesn't mean I think they had a happy ending either. Because, in my opinion
anyway, they squabbled a lot, and Buttercup lost her looks eventually, and one day Fezzik
lost a fight and some hot-shot kid whipped Inigo with a sword and Westley was never able
to really sleep sound because of Humperdinck maybe being on the trail.
I'm not trying to make this a downer, understand. I mean, I really do think that love is
the best thing in the world, except for cough drops. But I also have to say, for the
umpty-umpth time, that life isn't fair. It's just fairer than death, that's all.
 
New York City
February, 1973
Also by William Goldman
Novels
The Temple of Gold
Your Turn To Curtsy, My Turn To Bow
Soldier in the Rain
Boys and Girls Together
No Way to Treat a Lady
The Thing of It Is . . .
Father's Day
Nonfiction
The Season: A Candid Look at Broadway
Plays and Musicals
Blood, Sweat and Stanley Poole
(with James Goldman)
A Family Affair
(with James Goldman and John Kander)
Movies
Harper
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

